Copyright 2022 Morse Micro

All rights reserved.

This Source Code is provided to you under the terms of the Morse Micro Source Code License Agreement.

The use and redistribution of the Source code are regulated by the terms of the Agreement.

### Morse Micro Source Code License Agreement ###

This Morse Micro Source Code License Agreement (the “Agreement”) is between you and the Morse Micro 
entity that owns the Source Code that you are downloading or using (“Morse Micro”). If you are
agreeing to this Agreement not as an individual but on behalf of your company, government, or other 
entity for which you are acting (for example, as an employee or governmental official), then “you” 
means your entity and you are binding your entity to this Agreement. Morse Micro may modify this 
Agreement from time to time, subject to the terms in Section 21 (Changes to this Agreement) below. 

The “Effective Date” of this Agreement is the date which is the earlier of (a) your initial 
download, access to or use of the Source Code (as defined below) or (b) the effective date of the 
first Order referencing this Agreement or (c) the date on which you signed this agreement.

By using or accessing the Source Code, you indicate your assent to be bound by this Agreement.  
If you do not agree to this Agreement, do not use or access the Source Code.

This Agreement governs the use of any Morse Micro Source Code and other forms of software that 
references this Agreement.  The Source Code and its permitted use are further described in the 
Documentation.  The term “Source Code” includes Documentation unless otherwise specified.

Your License Rights. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Morse Micro grants you 
a non-exclusive, non-sublicensable and non-transferable license to use the Source Code for the 
purposes of tailoring such code to your specific application, in accordance with this Agreement, 
your applicable Scope of Use, the Documentation and all Laws, incorporate a compiled version of the 
Source Code into a product you provide to a third party.

Restrictions. Except as otherwise expressly permitted in this Agreement, you will not: (a) 
distribute, rent, lease, sell, sublicense, transfer, or provide access to the Source Code to a 
third party, including affiliate companies or customers; (b) incorporate the Source Code into a 
product or service you provide to a third party, unless in a compiled version (c) use the Source 
Code for the benefit of any third party; (d) remove or obscure any proprietary or other notices 
contained in the Source Code; (e) use the Source Code to build competitive products; (f) publicly 
disseminate information regarding the performance of the Source Code; or (g) encourage or assist 
any third party to do any of the foregoing.

Obligations. A compiled version of the Source Code may be incorporated into a product you provide 
to a third party if the third party agrees to: (a) not interfere with any license key mechanism in 
the compiled version of the Source Code or otherwise circumvent mechanisms in the compiled version 
of the Source Code intended to limit your use; (b) reverse engineer, disassemble, decompile, 
translate, or otherwise seek to obtain or derive the source code, underlying ideas, algorithms, 
file formats or non-public APIs from the compiled version of the Source Code, except to the extent 
expressly permitted by applicable law (and then only upon advance notice to Morse Micro).

Your Modifications. Any modified Source Code or Documentation constitutes “Your Modifications”. You 
may use Your Modifications solely in support of your permitted use of the Source Code (and only 
with your own instances of the Source Code), but you may not distribute the code to Your 
Modifications to any third party in Source form. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the 
contrary, Morse Micro has no support, warranty, indemnification or other obligation or liability 
with respect to Your Modifications or their combination, interaction or use with our Source Code. 

Indemnification by You. You will defend, indemnify and hold harmless Morse Micro from and against 
any loss, cost, liability or damage (including attorney’s fees) arising from or relating to any 
claim brought against Morse Micro by a third party relating to Your Modifications (including but 
not limited to any representations or warranties you make about Your Modifications) or your breach 
of Section 8 (Your Modifications).  This indemnification obligation is subject to your receiving 
(i) prompt written notice of such claim (but in any event notice in sufficient time for you to 
respond without prejudice); (ii) the exclusive right to control and direct the investigation, 
defense, or settlement of such claim; and (iii) all reasonably necessary cooperation of Morse Micro 
at your expense.

Privacy Terms. Morse Micro may collect certain data and information from you in connection with 
your download or use of the Source Code and otherwise in connection with this Agreement.  All such 
data and information will be collected and used by Morse Micro in accordance with its Privacy 
Policy, which you acknowledge.

New Releases. Morse Micro will provide access to New Releases, if and when available, and any 
references to “Source Code” in this Agreement include New Releases.

License Term and Renewals. The License Term is one (1) year.  The License Term and any applicable 
service periods will commence on the date of first access to the Source Code and expire after one 
year. The License Term is automatically renewed for another one (1) year at the end of the license 
term unless earlier terminated in accordance with this Agreement, each right to use Source Code 
will expire at the end of the applicable License Term. 

Ownership. The Source Code is made available on a limited license or access basis, and no ownership 
right is conveyed to you. Morse Micro and its licensors have and retain all right, title and 
interest, including all intellectual property rights, in and to Morse Micro Technology (including 
the Source Code). 

Confidentiality. Except as otherwise set forth in this Agreement, each party agrees that all code, 
inventions, know-how and business, technical and financial information disclosed to such party 
(“Receiving Party”) by the disclosing party (“Disclosing Party”) constitute the confidential 
property of the Disclosing Party (“Confidential Information”), provided that it is identified as 
confidential at the time of disclosure or should be reasonably known by the Receiving Party to be 
confidential or proprietary due to the nature of the information disclosed and the circumstances 
surrounding the disclosure. Any Morse Micro Technology and any performance information relating to 
the Software will be deemed Confidential Information of Morse Micro without any marking or further 
designation. Except as expressly authorized herein, the Receiving Party will (1) hold in confidence 
and not disclose any Confidential Information to third parties and (2) not use Confidential 
Information for any purpose other than fulfilling its obligations and exercising its rights under 
this Agreement.  The Receiving Party may disclose Confidential Information to its employees, 
agents, contractors and other representatives having a legitimate need to know, provided that they 
are bound to confidentiality obligations no less protective of the Disclosing Party than in this 
Section 14 and that the Receiving Party remains responsible for compliance by them with the terms 
of this Section 14. The Receiving Party's confidentiality obligations will not apply to information 
which the Receiving Party can document: (i) was rightfully in its possession or known to it prior 
to receipt of the Confidential Information; (ii) is or has become public knowledge through no fault 
of the Receiving Party; (iii) is rightfully obtained by the Receiving Party from a third party 
without breach of any confidentiality obligation; or (iv) is independently developed by employees 
of the Receiving Party who had no access to such information. The Receiving Party may also disclose 
Confidential Information if so required pursuant to a regulation, law or court order (but only to 
the minimum extent required to comply with such regulation or order and with advance notice to the 
Disclosing Party). The Receiving Party acknowledges that disclosure of Confidential Information 
ould cause substantial harm for which damages alone would not be a sufficient remedy, and therefore 
that upon any such disclosure by the Receiving Party the Disclosing Party will be entitled to 
appropriate equitable relief in addition to whatever other remedies it might have at law.

Term. This Agreement is effective as of the Effective Date and continues until expiration of all 
License Terms, unless earlier terminated as set forth herein. Either party may terminate this 
Agreement if the other party (a) fails to cure any material breach of this Agreement within thirty 
(30) days after written notice; (b) ceases operation without a successor; or (c) seeks protection 
under any bankruptcy, receivership, trust deed, creditors’ arrangement, composition or comparable 
proceeding, or if any such proceeding is instituted against that party (and not dismissed within 
sixty (60) days thereafter). You may choose to stop using the Source Code and terminate this 
Agreement at any time for any reason upon written notice to Morse Micro. Upon any expiration or 
termination of this Agreement, your license to the Source Code terminates and you must cease using 
and delete (or at our request, return) all Source Code and Confidential Information or other 
materials of Morse Micro in your possession. You will certify such deletion upon our request. 

Survival. The following Sections will survive any termination or expiration of this Agreement: 6 
(Restrictions), 9 (Indemnification by You), 13 (Ownership), 14 (Confidentiality), 15 (Term), 17 
(Warranty Disclaimer), 18 (Limitations of Liability), 20 (Dispute Resolution), 21 (Export 
Restrictions), and 22 (General Provisions).

Warranties. Each party represents and warrants that it has the legal power and authority to enter 
into this Agreement.  If you are an entity, you represent and warrant that this Agreement is 
entered into by an employee or agent of such entity with all necessary authority to bind such 
entity to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.  ALL SOURCE CODE IS PROVIDED “AS IS,” AND 
MORSE MICRO EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL WARRANTIES AND REPRESENTATIONS OF ANY KIND, INCLUDING 
ANY WARRANTY OF NON-INFRINGEMENT, TITLE, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, FUNCTIONALITY, OR 
MERCHANTABILITY, WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED, OR STATUTORY. TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, 
NEITHER MORSE MICRO NOR ANY OF ITS THIRD PARTY SUPPLIERS MAKES ANY REPRESENTATION, WARRANTY OR 
GUARANTEE AS TO THE RELIABILITY, TIMELINESS, QUALITY, SUITABILITY, TRUTH, AVAILABILITY, ACCURACY OR 
COMPLETENESS OF ANY SOURCE CODE OR ANY CONTENT THEREIN OR GENERATED THEREWITH, OR THAT: (A) THE USE 
OF ANY SOURCE CODE WILL BE SECURE, TIMELY, UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR-FREE; (B) THE SOURCE CODE WILL 
OPERATE IN COMBINATION WITH ANY OTHER HARDWARE, SOFTWARE, SYSTEM, OR DATA; (C) THE SOURCE CODE (OR 
ANY PRODUCTS, SERVICES, INFORMATION; (D) ERRORS OR DEFECTS WILL BE CORRECTED.

Consequential Damages Waiver. EXCEPT FOR EXCLUDED CLAIMS (DEFINED BELOW), NEITHER PARTY (NOR ITS 
SUPPLIERS) WILL HAVE ANY LIABILITY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT FOR ANY LOSS OF USE, 
LOST OR INACCURATE DATA, LOST PROFITS, FAILURE OF SECURITY MECHANISMS, INTERRUPTION OF BUSINESS, 
COSTS OF DELAY OR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, RELIANCE OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND, 
EVEN IF INFORMED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES IN ADVANCE.

Liability Cap. EXCEPT FOR EXCLUDED CLAIMS, EACH PARTY’S AND ITS SUPPLIERS’ AGGREGATE LIABILITY TO 
THE OTHER ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT EXCEED THE AMOUNT ACTUALLY PAID OR 
PAYABLE BY YOU TO US UNDER THIS AGREEMENT IN THE TWELVE (12) MONTHS IMMEDIATELY PRECEDING THE CLAIM.

Nature of Claims and Failure of Essential Purpose. The parties agree that the waivers and 
limitations specified in this Sections 18 and 19 apply regardless of the form of action, whether in 
contract, tort (including negligence), strict liability or otherwise and will survive and apply 
even if any limited remedy specified in this Agreement is found to have failed of its essential 
purpose.

Informal Resolution. In the event of any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this 
Agreement, the parties will consult and negotiate with each other and, recognizing their mutual 
interests, attempt to reach a solution satisfactory to both parties. If the parties do not reach 
settlement within a period of sixty (60) days, either party may pursue relief as may be available 
under this Agreement pursuant to Section 23 (Governing Law; Jurisdiction). All negotiations pursuant
 to this Section 22 will be confidential and treated as compromise and settlement negotiations for 
 purposes of all rules and codes of evidence of applicable legislation and jurisdictions.

Governing Law; Jurisdiction. This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with 
the applicable laws of the State of California, USA, without giving effect to the principles of 
that State relating to conflicts of laws. Each party irrevocably agrees that any legal action, suit 
or proceeding arising out of or related to this Agreement must be brought solely and exclusively in,
 and will be subject to the service of process and other applicable procedural rules of, the State 
 or Federal court in San Francisco, California, USA, and each party irrevocably submits to the sole 
 and exclusive personal jurisdiction of the courts in San Francisco, California, USA, generally and 
 unconditionally, with respect to any action, suit or proceeding brought by it or against it by the 
 other party. In any action or proceeding to enforce a party’s rights under this Agreement, the 
 prevailing party will be entitled to recover its reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees.

Injunctive Relief; Enforcement. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 22 (Informal Resolution) 
and Section 23 (Governing Law; Jurisdiction), nothing in this Agreement will prevent Morse Micro 
from seeking injunctive relief with respect to a violation of intellectual property rights, 
confidentiality obligations or enforcement or recognition of any award or order in any appropriate 
jurisdiction.

Exclusion of UN Convention and UCITA. The terms of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for 
the Sale of Goods do not apply to this Agreement. The Uniform Computer Information Transactions Act 
(UCITA) will not apply to this Agreement regardless of when or where adopted.

Export Restrictions. You agree to comply with all applicable export and import laws and regulations 
in your download of, access to, and use of the Source Code.

Third Party Code. The Source Code may include code and libraries licensed to us by third parties, 
including open source software. Contact legal@morsemicro.com for more information on third party 
code.

Modifications. We may modify the terms and conditions of this Agreement (including Morse Micro 
Policies) from time to time, with notice given to you by email or through our website.  Together 
with notice, we will specify the effective date of the modifications. The modifications will take 
effect at the next renewal of your License Term and will automatically apply as of the renewal 
date. You must accept the modifications to continue using the Source Code. If you object to the 
modifications, your exclusive remedy is to cease using the Source Code. In some cases – e.g., to 
address compliance with Laws, or as necessary for new features – we may specify that such 
modifications become effective during your then-current License Term. If the effective date of such 
modifications is during your then-current License Term and you object to the modifications, then 
(as your exclusive remedy) you may terminate your License upon notice to us.

Notices. Any notice under this Agreement must be given in writing. We may provide notice to you via 
email or through your account. You agree that any such electronic communication will satisfy any 
applicable legal communication requirements, including that such communications be in writing. Our 
notices to you will be deemed given upon the first business day after we send it.

Force Majeure. Neither party will be liable to the other for any delay or failure to perform any 
obligation under this Agreement (except for a failure to pay fees) if the delay or failure is due 
to events which are beyond the reasonable control of such party, such as a strike, blockade, war, 
act of terrorism, riot, natural disaster, failure or diminishment of power or telecommunications or 
data networks or services, or refusal of a license by a government agency.

Assignment. You may not assign or transfer this Agreement without our prior written consent. As an 
exception to the foregoing, you may assign this Agreement in its entirety to your successor 
resulting from your merger, acquisition, or sale of all or substantially all of your assets or 
voting securities, provided that you provide us with prompt written notice of the assignment and 
the assignee agrees in writing to assume all of your obligations under this Agreement. Any attempt 
by you to transfer or assign this Agreement except as expressly authorized above will be null and 
void. We may assign our rights and obligations under this Agreement (in whole or in part) without 
your consent. We may also permit our Affiliates, agents and contractors to exercise our rights or 
perform our obligations under this Agreement, in which case we will remain responsible for their 
compliance with this Agreement.  Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement will inure to the 
parties’ permitted successors and assigns.

Government End Users. Any United States federal, state, or local government customers are subject 
to the Government Amendment in addition to this Agreement.

Entire Agreement. This Agreement is the entire agreement between you and Morse Micro relating to 
the Source Code and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous oral or written communications, 
proposals and representations between you and Morse Micro with respect to the Source Code or any 
other subject matter covered by this Agreement.  No provision of any purchase order or other 
business form employed by you will supersede or supplement the terms and conditions of this 
Agreement, and any such document relating to this Agreement will be for administrative purposes 
only and will have no legal effect.

Waivers; Modifications. No failure or delay by the injured party to this Agreement in exercising 
any right, power or privilege hereunder will operate as a waiver thereof, nor will any single or 
partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any 
right, power or privilege hereunder at law or equity. Except as set forth in Section 27 
(Modifications), any amendments or modifications to this Agreement must be executed in writing by 
the authorized representatives of Morse Micro and you.

Interpretation. As used herein, “including” (and its variants) means “including without limitation” 
(and its variants).  Headings are for convenience only.  If any provision of this Agreement is held 
to be void, invalid, unenforceable or illegal, the other provisions will continue in full force and 
effect.

Independent Contractors. The parties are independent contractors. This Agreement will not be 
construed as constituting either party as a partner of the other or to create any other form of 
legal association that would give either party the express or implied right, power or authority to 
create any duty or obligation of the other party.

Definitions. Certain capitalized terms are defined in this Section 23, and others are defined 
contextually in this Agreement.

“Affiliate” means an entity which, directly or indirectly, owns or controls, is owned or is 
controlled by or is under common ownership or control with a party, where “control” means the power 
to direct the management or affairs of an entity, and “ownership” means the beneficial ownership of 
greater than 50% of the voting equity securities or other equivalent voting interests of the entity.

“Documentation” means our standard published documentation for the Source Code, currently located 
here.

“Laws” means all applicable local, state, federal and international laws, regulations and 
conventions, including those related to data privacy and data transfer, international communications
 and the exportation of technical or personal data.

“License Term” means your permitted license term for the Source Code.

“New Releases” means any bug fixes, patches, major or minor releases, or any other changes, 
enhancements, or modifications to the Source Code that we make available to you.

“Order” means Morse Micro’s applicable ordering documentation or other purchase flow referencing 
this Agreement.  Orders may include purchases of Software licenses, Support and Maintenance, 
Additional Services, increased or upgraded Scope of Use or renewals.

“Product-Specific Terms” means additional terms that apply to certain Software and Additional 
Services, currently located here.

“Scope of Use” means your authorized scope of use for the Software as specified in the applicable 
Order.

“Source Code” and “Software” means Morse Micro’s commercially available downloadable software in a 
compiled or Source Code form.
